that right there is
uncontrollable that is the sound of air
coming out
into this bag it's just air but that is
literally
farting through a hole in the side side
of my body
and i can't help it sometimes it happens
when i'm in the studio well let's speak
to our security correspondent frank
gardiner
i'm frank gardner i was the bbc's
first ever security correspondent frank
gardner bbc news
in saudi arabia i see my life in two
halves
the frank that traveled the world
unhindered
and the frank that came after the bbc
has confirmed tonight that a bbc
team has come under fire from gunmen in
a suburb of the saudi capital riyadh
i was shot six times by al-qaeda leaving
me partially paralyzed
at the age of 43. sixteen years after i
was attacked
my job as security correspondent for the
bbc is as important to me as it ever was
so this is my man on the inside of the
embassy
i report on terrorism intelligence
espionage but sometimes it's the small
things that get in the way
[Music]
are you okay with being disabled it's
pointless not being okay with it
because there's nothing i can do about
it so frankly it makes bugger all
difference whether i'm okay with it or
not
because it is what it is it's not easy
looking back at pictures of myself as a
young man
fresh out of university and traveling
around the middle east without a care in
the world
america has now deployed some of its
most sophisticated firepower here in the
gulf
i i just don't think i ever felt in
danger and even to go to iraq under
saddam hussein
for us as journalists it was a very safe
place
it was thrilling that is the magnetic
pull of news journalism
it is so exciting it is a drug
[Music]
when al qaeda attacked america on 9 11
the middle east
became a much more dangerous place
we're here on the afghan pakistani
border
it got so busy hoovering up post 9 11
stories where is bin laden
who are al qaeda in june
2004 al qaeda attacked western targets
in saudi arabia
i went there to report from the capital
riyadh where my cameraman and i
were ambushed this car turned up
guy got out smiling um and then he
pulled out a weapon pulled out a pistol
and uh started firing at which stage i
ran
and i didn't even know at that stage
whether my cameraman was alive or dead
we were running for our lives and one
bullet went through my shoulder
but then the next one hit me in the leg
and
broke my femur so i was then down
couldn't run any further
and they then overtook me in a vehicle a
van with a sliding door
they didn't stop there they then decided
to put the rest of the rounds into me
and fired several more bullets um four
of which hit me
um you know but i was conscious for the
whole thing
obviously i wish we hadn't gone on that
trip
um and i wish that my cameraman simon
cumbers
had survived more than anything
six bullets caused 11 bullet hulls and
for 48 hours my life was in the balance
after three weeks i was medevaced back
to the uk
and brought to the royal london hospital
so i was uh four months
in this hospital i was still in a very
perilous state here
my recollections of it was tremendous
sadness feeling of loss
and with the pervading sense of this is
your new life now
forget about the old life it's over it's
a life sentence
that was the sense that i had at the
time
all these years i have mourned the loss
of the old me
i fought desperately against the
limitations of my wheelchair
and refuse to be defined by my
disability
socotro's culture and its ecology are
unique
they've developed in near isolation from
mainland yemen over the centuries
but i've realized that it's also
possible to accept
the new me isn't that just fantastic i
just
love that you know morning in the alps
there's so much of my previous life that
i've been able to salvage
as it were and carry on with you know
living
these things have continued it's almost
like there's a whole sort of invisible
bridge that i've crossed over to the
other side and carried on
when you face a life-changing injury the
mental recovery
is often far harder than the physical
one and can sometimes
take years
but you know when all is said and done
i'm really very happy
just being frank
you